这里主要阐述和 Oracle 的区别:

Oracle 中可用 `Disable Constraint` 暂时禁用外键约束, 使数据插入更方便. 但是Mysql 中没有约束功能, 只能先删除外键再添加回来.

## 约束关系差异

MySQL的InnoDB存储引擎支持外键约束, 语法类似Oracle:
```sql
contraint fk_name foreign key (sub_id) references sub(id)
```

`on delete cascade` 外键删除时, 会自动删除引用行.

## 数据类型差异

### Numeric Data Types:

**Oracle**:

1. `NUMBER`: Can store fixed and floating-point numbers. `Number(12, 0)` indicates 12 overall length, 0 fractional length.
2. `BINARY_FLOAT`, `BINARY_DOUBLE`: For floating-point numbers.

**MySQL**:

1. `TINYINT`, `SMALLINT`, `MEDIUMINT`, `INT`, `BIGINT`: For integer values.
2. `FLOAT`, `DOUBLE`: For floating-point numbers.
3. `DECIMAL`: Fixed-point numbers. `DECIMAL(12, 0)`

### Character String Data Types:

**Oracle**:

1. `VARCHAR2`: Variable-length character string.
2. `CHAR`: Fixed-length character string.
3. `LONG`: A single column can hold up to 2 GB.

**MySQL**:

1. `VARCHAR`: Variable-length string.
2. `CHAR`: Fixed-length string.
3. `TINYTEXT`, `TEXT`, `MEDIUMTEXT`, `LONGTEXT`: For textual data of various maximum lengths.

### Date and Time Data Types:

**Oracle**:

1. `DATE`: Stores date and time to the second.
2. `TIMESTAMP`: Date and time with fractional seconds.
3. `INTERVAL`: Represents a span of time.

**MySQL**:

1. `DATE`: For date values.
2. `TIME`: For time values.
3. `DATETIME`: Combines date and time.
4. `TIMESTAMP`: Date and time with a timestamp feature.

### Large Object (LOB) Data Types:

**Oracle**:

1. `BLOB`: Binary data up to 4 GB.
2. `CLOB`, `NCLOB`: Character data up to 4 GB.

**MySQL**:

1. `BLOB`, `TINYBLOB`, `MEDIUMBLOB`, `LONGBLOB`: Binary data of various maximum lengths.
2. As mentioned above, `TEXT` types for large text data.

### Raw Binary Data Types:

**Oracle**:

1. `RAW`: Stores variable-length raw binary data.
2. `LONG RAW`: For raw binary data up to 2 GB.

**MySQL**:

1. (Uses the `BLOB` types mentioned above.)

### Additional Differences:

1. **Oracle** has a unique `ROWID` datatype that represents the address of a row in the database.
2. **MySQL** has the `ENUM` and `SET` data types, which are not present in Oracle.
3. **Oracle**'s `NUMBER` datatype can cover a lot of numeric types that in **MySQL** are distinct, such as `INT`, `FLOAT`, etc.
4. Oracle supports `XMLType` for storing XML data, while MySQL does not have a specific XML type (though you can store XML as text).
5. MySQL has the `JSON` data type to store JSON-formatted strings, whereas Oracle does not have a specific JSON type (though Oracle 12c and later versions provide comprehensive support for working with JSON data using other types).